# 3.1 Given a scenario, implement secure protocols

# Protocols
## Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC)

## SSH

## Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME)

## Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)

## Lightweight Directory Access Protocol Over SSL (LDAPS)

## File Transfer Protocol, Secure (FTPS)

## SSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP)

## Simple Network Management Protocol, version 3 (SNMPv3)

## Hypertext transfer protocol over SSL/TLS (HTTPS)

## IPSec

### Authentication header (AH)/Encapsulating Security Payloads (ESP)
### Tunnel/transport

## Post Office Protocol (POP)/Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP)

# Use cases
## Voice and video

## Time synchronization

## Email and web

## File transfer

## Directory services

## Remote access

## Domain name resolution

## Routing and switching

## Network address allocation

## Subscription services


# Practice Questions:

You are tasked with NTP on some servers within your org's DMZ. Which of the following use cases are you MOST likely supporting with this action?

- *Providing time synchronization*
- Enabling email usage
- Encrypting data-in transit
- Encrypting voice & video transmissions 

NTP Port: 123

Your org's security policy requires that confidential data transferred over the internal network must be encrypted. Which of the following protocols would BEST meet this requirement?

- *SSH*
- SRTP
- FTP
- SNMPv3

Your org wants to increase security for VoIP and video teleconferencing applications used within the network. Which of the following protocols will BEST support this goal?

- TLS
- SFTP
- *SRTP*
- S/MIME

You need to collect network device configuration info and network stats from devices on the network. You want to protect the confidentiality of credentials used to connect to these devices. Which of the following protocols would BEST meet this need?

- FTPS
- *SNMPv3*
- TLS
- SSH

An outside consultant performed an audit of the org's network. It was identified that a legacy protocol was being used to access browser-based interfaces on switches & routers within the network. It was recommended to replace the legacy protocol with a secure protocol to access the network devices using the same interface. Which or the following protocols should be implemented?

- The newest fully support version of SSL
- The newest fully support version of SNMP
- *The newest fully support version of TLS*
- The newest fully support version of LDAPS

Your org plans to deploy a server in the DMZ (screened subnet, area that is not behind the firewall) that will perform the following functions:
- Identify mail servers
- Provide data integrity
- Prevent poisoning attacks
- Respond to requests for A and AAAA records

Which of the following will BEST meet these requirements?

- *DNSSEC*
- DNS
- TLS
- ESP

You are responsible for managing and monitoring network devices, such as routers and switches, on the network network. Which of the following protocols are you MOST likely to use?

- NAT
- SRTP
- *SNMPv3*
- DNSSEC