# 3.5 Given a scenario, implement secure mobile solutions

# Connection methods and receivers

## Cellular
## WiFi
## Bluetooth
## NFC
## Infrared
## USB
## Point-to-point
## Point-to-multipoint
## Global Positioning System (GPS)
## RFID

# Mobile device management (MDM)

## Application management
## Content management
## Remote wipe
## Geofencing
## Geolocation
## Screen locks
## Push notifications
## Passwords and PINs
## Biometrics
## Context-aware authentication
## Containerization
## Storage segmentation
## Full device encryption

# Mobile devices

## MicroSD hardware security module (HSM)
## MDM/Unified Endpoint Management (UEM)
## Mobile application management (MAM)
## SEAndroid

# Enforcement and monitoring of:

## Third-party application stores
## Rooting/jailbreaking
## Sideloading
## Custom firmware
## Carrier unlocking
## Firmware over-the-air (OTA) updates
## Camera use
## SMS/Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS)/Rich Communication Services (RCS)
## External media
## USB On-The-Go (USB OTG)
## Recording microphone
## GPS tagging
## WiFi direct/ad hoc
## Tethering
## Hotspot
## Payment methods

# Deployment models

## Bring your own device (BYOD)
## Corporate-owned personally enabled (COPE)
## Choose your own device (CYOD)
## Corporate-owned
## Virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI)

# Practice Questions

Personnel should be able to run an internal app from their mobile devices. However, certain features should only be operational when users are within the company's property. When user's leave the property, access to these features should be blocked. Which of the following answers provides the best solution to meet this goal?

- Geofencing
- Containerization
- Geolocation
- GPS tagging

Your coworker is showing you a new app they downloaded from a third party onto their iPhone. You have the same model phone but cannot find the app in the App Store. Of the following choices, what is the most likely explanation for this?

- Jailbreaking
- Tethering
- Sidebreaking
- Rooting

Your org is planning to implement a CYOD deployment model. You've been asked to provide input for the new policy. Which of the following concepts are appropriate for this policy?

- Embedded RTOS
- Database security
- Storage segmentation
- SCADA access

Your coworker is showing you a new app they downloaded from a third party onto their iPhone. You have the same model phone but cannot find the app in the App Store. Of the following choices, what is the most likely explanation for this?

- Carrier unlocking
- Sideloading
- OTA updates
- Rootbreaking

Management within your org wants to implement a method that will authorize employee access to the network based on several elements. These elements include the employee's identity, their location, the time of day, and the type of device used by the employee. Which of the following will best meet this need?

- Tethering
- Containerization
- Geofence
- Context-aware authentication

Your org has implemented a CYOD security policy. The policy mandates the use of security controls to protect the devices and any data stored on them, in the event they are lost/stolen. What is the best option to meet this goal?

- Screen locks and GPS tagging
- Patch management and change management
- Full device encryption and XaaS
- Screen locks and device encryption