readme.md, before:

# SY0-601 Notes
This project is a work in progress while I study and take notes for the CompTIA Sec+ SY0-601 Exam. These are my personal notes and write-ups written in preparation for my exam. Once my exam is scheduled and I reach 30 days before I take the exam, I will not be updating any of these documents. 

# Disclaimer
Do not rely on these notes to pass the exam. It is advised to either watch Professor Messer's videos, use any official study guide material, and use the exam objectives for the relevant exam you are studying for. 

NOTE: The information used in my notes has come from Professor Messer's free SY0-601 CompTIA Security+ Course videos. 

https://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/sy0-601/sy0-601-video/sy0-601-comptia-security-plus-course/

# Exam Objectives

The table below lists the domains measured by this examination 
and the extent to which they are represented

|      DOMAIN PERCENTAGE OF EXAMINATION      |  %  |
|:------------------------------------------:|:---:|
| 1.0 Attacks, Threats, and Vulnerabilities  | 24% |
|         2.0 Architecture and Design        | 21% |
|             3.0 Implementation             | 25% |
|    4.0 Operations and Incident Response    | 16% |
|    5.0 Governance, Risk, and Compliance    | 14% |

Commit message:

Added Mention of Mike Chappel's LI Course

readme.md, after:

# SY0-601 Notes
This project is a work in progress while I study and take notes for the CompTIA Sec+ SY0-601 Exam. These are my personal notes and write-ups written in preparation for my exam. Once my exam is scheduled and I reach 30 days before I take the exam, I will not be updating any of these documents. 

# Disclaimer
Do not rely on these notes to pass the exam. It is advised to either watch Professor Messer's videos, use any official study guide material, and use the exam objectives for the relevant exam you are studying for. 

NOTE: The information used in my notes has come from Professor Messer's free SY0-601 CompTIA Security+ Course videos as well as Mike Chappel's LinkedIn Cert Prep courses. 

https://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/sy0-601/sy0-601-video/sy0-601-comptia-security-plus-course/

# Exam Objectives

The table below lists the domains measured by this examination 
and the extent to which they are represented

|      DOMAIN PERCENTAGE OF EXAMINATION      |  %  |
|:------------------------------------------:|:---:|
| 1.0 Attacks, Threats, and Vulnerabilities  | 24% |
|         2.0 Architecture and Design        | 21% |
|             3.0 Implementation             | 25% |
|    4.0 Operations and Incident Response    | 16% |
|    5.0 Governance, Risk, and Compliance    | 14% |
