2-Architecture-and-Design/2.2 Summarize virtualization and cloud computing concepts.md, before:

# 2.2 Summarize virtualization and cloud computing concepts
# Cloud
The cloud refers to a network of computers, known as servers, connected to the internet. These servers are used to store, process, and manage data. Users can access the cloud from any location with an internet connection. Different types of services are provided through the cloud, including storage, networking, and software applications.

There are considerable advantages to using the cloud, including the following:

- Cost savings: Organizations can save money on hardware, software, and IT maintenance costs.
- Scalability: Resources can be quickly scaled based on an organization's specific needs, which can be helpful for businesses that experience predictable fluctuations in demand.
- Flexibility: Users can access data and applications from anywhere with an internet connection, which makes it easier for them to work remotely or to access files from multiple devices.
- Reliability: Cloud providers commonly have robust security measures to protect your data and backup systems to ensure that you don't experience data loss during a disaster.
- Collaboration: The cloud makes it easy for teams to collaborate on projects, regardless of location.
- Automatic updates: Cloud providers often manage software and security updates, saving you time and effort.

## Shared Responsibility 
### Note: This is NOT included in the exam objectives, but I am adding it anyways.
Cloud security is a shared responsibility. This model defines the duties of customers and cloud service providers in ensuring the cloud environment is secure.

## Software-as-a-service (SaaS)
The CSP is responsible for securing the underlying infrastructure, the platform, and the software itself. The customer is responsible for securing their devices, networks, user accounts, and access to the SaaS application. The customer is also responsible for implementing security controls and following best practices to protect their data and use of the apps.

## Platform-as-a-service (PaaS)
The CSP is responsible for securing the underlying infrastructure and the platform itself. The customer's responsible for securing the apps & data on the platform and any configurations made to the platform.

## Infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS)
The CSP is responsible for securing the underlying infrastructure, such as the physical servers, storage, and networking equipment. The customer is responsible for the workloads and data.


# Cloud models
## Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
Sometimes referred to as Hardware as a Service (HaaS), cloud service providers provide an organization with the hardware required for it's services to get up and running. This means the organization will get a system that only has CPU, storage, and network connectivity and will be responsible for the OS and apps that will run on the infrastructure. 

- The organization is responsible for the security of the data on the system.    
- The organization has full control over the information and how it's store, allowing data to be encrypted to protect sensitive informaton and restrict unauthorized viewers from looking at the data.
    - Example: web service provider who gives you the server, but you have to load the OS and apps that run on the OS. Then you would pay a monthly subscription to be able to run the service in the cloud.

## Platform as a service (PaaS)
PaaS offers an option in the middle of IaaS and SaaS, and provides organizations a platform to use for application development. The cloud service provider offers the OS, infrastructure, virtualization services, and provides the building blocks needed to develop apps that are customized specifically for the org.

- App development platform is hosted with a third-party, which gives them access to all of the orgs apps, data and any other resources that make the app. 
    - PaaS allows for custom login screens and inventory screens.
    - Example: Salesforce gives you the foundation for developers to build on to create a custom app.



## Software as a service (SaaS)
SaaS is software on-demand, which doesn't require local installation. All you need to do is log into the system to begin using the software. This means you don't need to configure the OS, write the apps, or maintain the app or data. The cloud service provider would manage those tasks for you. 

- The cloud service provider is responsible for managing the apps and data, as well as the development. 
    - Example: Gmail, Microsoft 365 apps, payroll services, etc.

## Anything as a service (XaaS)
XaaS is a broad description for any type of service that is provided using the public cloud, rather than using services on a private cloud. This model typically comes with a pricing model that allows organizations to pay for what they're using instead of paying for a complete package of services or licenses. 

- If an organization was managing all of its services internally in their own data center, this would be an on-prem model. Everything from networking, storage, servers, and virtualization, as well as the OS, middleware, and runtime running on those systems would be in-house along with the data and apps.

The concept between Anything as a Service would be that anything that you’re currently doing in-house with technology could potentially be outsourced into a cloud based system. This would mean that IT would be less of an ongoing break/fix organization and more of one that is focused on taking the technology needed by the organization and applying that into a cloud based service.



## Public
𝗣𝘂𝗯𝗹𝗶𝗰 𝗰𝗹𝗼𝘂𝗱𝘀: These environments are owned and operated by third-party cloud service providers (CSP) and are available to the public. Public clouds are typically less expensive than private clouds; however, they don't always offer the same level of security or control.
## Community

## Private
𝗣𝗿𝗶𝘃𝗮𝘁𝗲 𝗰𝗹𝗼𝘂𝗱: These environments are owned and operated by a single organization. Private clouds may be hosted locally in the company's or a third party's data center. Private cloud environments offer additional security and control but can be more expensive.
## Hybrid
𝗛𝘆𝗯𝗿𝗶𝗱 𝗰𝗹𝗼𝘂𝗱𝘀 are a combination between a private and a public cloud environment, allowing data and apps to move between the two. Hybrid cloud environments provide private and public cloud benefits to organizations as they can customize the infrastructure to meet their specific needs.

## Multi-Cloud
### Note: This is NOT included in the exam objectives, but I am adding it anyways.
𝗠𝘂𝗹𝘁𝗶-𝗰𝗹𝗼𝘂𝗱 is a cloud environment where organizations have multiple cloud services from different providers. They provide organizations to benefit from the features of various providers while preventing vendor lock-ins. For example, an organization may want to use Azure for their production environment and AWS for their development and testing environments or for redundancy to reduce downtime and data loss.
# Cloud service providers (CSPs)
- Provides multiple cloud services (tens to hundreds of services)
    - Services can be chained together to create cloud architectures
    - Services are accessible through a single unified API (for instance, AWS API)

# Managed service provider (MSP)/managed security service provider (MSSP)

# On-premises vs. off-premises

# Fog computing

# Edge computing

# Thin client

# Containers

# Microservices/API

# Infrastructure as code

## Software-defined networking (SDN)

## Software-defined visibility (SDV)

# Serverless architecture

# Services integration

# Resource policies

# Transit gateway

# Virtualization

## Virtual machine (VM) sprawl avoidance

## VM escape protection

Commit message:

Added Fog, Edge, and Thin Client notes

2-Architecture-and-Design/2.2 Summarize virtualization and cloud computing concepts.md, after:

# 2.2 Summarize virtualization and cloud computing concepts
# Cloud
The cloud refers to a network of computers, known as servers, connected to the internet. These servers are used to store, process, and manage data. Users can access the cloud from any location with an internet connection. Different types of services are provided through the cloud, including storage, networking, and software applications.

There are considerable advantages to using the cloud, including the following:

- Cost savings: Organizations can save money on hardware, software, and IT maintenance costs.
- Scalability: Resources can be quickly scaled based on an organization's specific needs, which can be helpful for businesses that experience predictable fluctuations in demand.
- Flexibility: Users can access data and applications from anywhere with an internet connection, which makes it easier for them to work remotely or to access files from multiple devices.
- Reliability: Cloud providers commonly have robust security measures to protect your data and backup systems to ensure that you don't experience data loss during a disaster.
- Collaboration: The cloud makes it easy for teams to collaborate on projects, regardless of location.
- Automatic updates: Cloud providers often manage software and security updates, saving you time and effort.

## Shared Responsibility 
### Note: This is NOT included in the exam objectives, but I am adding it anyways.
Cloud security is a shared responsibility. This model defines the duties of customers and cloud service providers in ensuring the cloud environment is secure.

## Software-as-a-service (SaaS)
The CSP is responsible for securing the underlying infrastructure, the platform, and the software itself. The customer is responsible for securing their devices, networks, user accounts, and access to the SaaS application. The customer is also responsible for implementing security controls and following best practices to protect their data and use of the apps.

## Platform-as-a-service (PaaS)
The CSP is responsible for securing the underlying infrastructure and the platform itself. The customer's responsible for securing the apps & data on the platform and any configurations made to the platform.

## Infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS)
The CSP is responsible for securing the underlying infrastructure, such as the physical servers, storage, and networking equipment. The customer is responsible for the workloads and data.


# Cloud models
## Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
Sometimes referred to as Hardware as a Service (HaaS), cloud service providers provide an organization with the hardware required for it's services to get up and running. This means the organization will get a system that only has CPU, storage, and network connectivity and will be responsible for the OS and apps that will run on the infrastructure. 

- The organization is responsible for the security of the data on the system.    
- The organization has full control over the information and how it's store, allowing data to be encrypted to protect sensitive informaton and restrict unauthorized viewers from looking at the data.
    - Example: web service provider who gives you the server, but you have to load the OS and apps that run on the OS. Then you would pay a monthly subscription to be able to run the service in the cloud.

## Platform as a service (PaaS)
PaaS offers an option in the middle of IaaS and SaaS, and provides organizations a platform to use for application development. The cloud service provider offers the OS, infrastructure, virtualization services, and provides the building blocks needed to develop apps that are customized specifically for the org.

- App development platform is hosted with a third-party, which gives them access to all of the orgs apps, data and any other resources that make the app. 
    - PaaS allows for custom login screens and inventory screens.
    - Example: Salesforce gives you the foundation for developers to build on to create a custom app.



## Software as a service (SaaS)
SaaS is software on-demand, which doesn't require local installation. All you need to do is log into the system to begin using the software. This means you don't need to configure the OS, write the apps, or maintain the app or data. The cloud service provider would manage those tasks for you. 

- The cloud service provider is responsible for managing the apps and data, as well as the development. 
    - Example: Gmail, Microsoft 365 apps, payroll services, etc.

## Anything as a service (XaaS)
XaaS is a broad description for any type of service that is provided using the public cloud, rather than using services on a private cloud. This model typically comes with a pricing model that allows organizations to pay for what they're using instead of paying for a complete package of services or licenses. 

- If an organization was managing all of its services internally in their own data center, this would be an on-prem model. Everything from networking, storage, servers, and virtualization, as well as the OS, middleware, and runtime running on those systems would be in-house along with the data and apps.

The concept between Anything as a Service would be that anything that you’re currently doing in-house with technology could potentially be outsourced into a cloud based system. This would mean that IT would be less of an ongoing break/fix organization and more of one that is focused on taking the technology needed by the organization and applying that into a cloud based service.



## Public
𝗣𝘂𝗯𝗹𝗶𝗰 𝗰𝗹𝗼𝘂𝗱𝘀: These environments are owned and operated by third-party cloud service providers (CSP) and are available to the public. Public clouds are typically less expensive than private clouds; however, they don't always offer the same level of security or control.
## Community

## Private
𝗣𝗿𝗶𝘃𝗮𝘁𝗲 𝗰𝗹𝗼𝘂𝗱: These environments are owned and operated by a single organization. Private clouds may be hosted locally in the company's or a third party's data center. Private cloud environments offer additional security and control but can be more expensive.
## Hybrid
𝗛𝘆𝗯𝗿𝗶𝗱 𝗰𝗹𝗼𝘂𝗱𝘀 are a combination between a private and a public cloud environment, allowing data and apps to move between the two. Hybrid cloud environments provide private and public cloud benefits to organizations as they can customize the infrastructure to meet their specific needs.

## Multi-Cloud
### Note: This is NOT included in the exam objectives, but I am adding it anyways.
𝗠𝘂𝗹𝘁𝗶-𝗰𝗹𝗼𝘂𝗱 is a cloud environment where organizations have multiple cloud services from different providers. They provide organizations to benefit from the features of various providers while preventing vendor lock-ins. For example, an organization may want to use Azure for their production environment and AWS for their development and testing environments or for redundancy to reduce downtime and data loss.
# Cloud service providers (CSPs)
- Provides multiple cloud services (tens to hundreds of services)
    - Services can be chained together to create cloud architectures
    - Services are accessible through a single unified API (for instance, AWS API)

# Managed service provider (MSP)/managed security service provider (MSSP)

# On-premises vs. off-premises

# Fog computing
Fog computing is a mix of cloud and edge computing to provide low latency and high bandwidth access to data and services.
# Edge computing
Edge computing processes data at the edge of a network, closest to the source of the data, to reduce latency and improve data processing efficiency.
# Thin client
Thin clients are low-power devices that rely on a remote server to access apps and data and perform most computing tasks. These devices frequently replace traditional desktops or laptops in virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) deployments, as they are more cost-effective and require less maintenance. 
# Containers

# Microservices/API

# Infrastructure as code

## Software-defined networking (SDN)

## Software-defined visibility (SDV)

# Serverless architecture

# Services integration

# Resource policies

# Transit gateway

# Virtualization

## Virtual machine (VM) sprawl avoidance

## VM escape protection
