# 2.2 Summarize virtualization and cloud computing concepts
# Cloud
The cloud refers to a network of computers, known as servers, connected to the internet. These servers are used to store, process, and manage data. Users can access the cloud from any location with an internet connection. Different types of services are provided through the cloud, including storage, networking, and software applications.

There are considerable advantages to using the cloud, including the following:

- Cost savings: Organizations can save money on hardware, software, and IT maintenance costs.
- Scalability: Resources can be quickly scaled based on an organization's specific needs, which can be helpful for businesses that experience predictable fluctuations in demand.
- Flexibility: Users can access data and applications from anywhere with an internet connection, which makes it easier for them to work remotely or to access files from multiple devices.
- Reliability: Cloud providers commonly have robust security measures to protect your data and backup systems to ensure that you don't experience data loss during a disaster.
- Collaboration: The cloud makes it easy for teams to collaborate on projects, regardless of location.
- Automatic updates: Cloud providers often manage software and security updates, saving you time and effort.
# Cloud models
## Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)

## Platform as a service (PaaS)

## Software as a service (SaaS)

## Anything as a service (XaaS)

## Public
ğ—£ğ˜‚ğ—¯ğ—¹ğ—¶ğ—° ğ—°ğ—¹ğ—¼ğ˜‚ğ—±ğ˜€: These environments are owned and operated by third-party cloud service providers (CSP) and are available to the public. Public clouds are typically less expensive than private clouds; however, they don't always offer the same level of security or control.
## Community

## Private
ğ—£ğ—¿ğ—¶ğ˜ƒğ—®ğ˜ğ—² ğ—°ğ—¹ğ—¼ğ˜‚ğ—±: These environments are owned and operated by a single organization. Private clouds may be hosted locally in the company's or a third party's data center. Private cloud environments offer additional security and control but can be more expensive.
## Hybrid
ğ—›ğ˜†ğ—¯ğ—¿ğ—¶ğ—± ğ—°ğ—¹ğ—¼ğ˜‚ğ—±ğ˜€ are a combination between a private and a public cloud environment, allowing data and apps to move between the two. Hybrid cloud environments provide private and public cloud benefits to organizations as they can customize the infrastructure to meet their specific needs.

## Multi-Cloud
### Note: This is NOT included in the exam objectives, but I am adding it anyways.
ğ— ğ˜‚ğ—¹ğ˜ğ—¶-ğ—°ğ—¹ğ—¼ğ˜‚ğ—± is a cloud environment where organizations have multiple cloud services from different providers. They provide organizations to benefit from the features of various providers while preventing vendor lock-ins. For example, an organization may want to use Azure for their production environment and AWS for their development and testing environments or for redundancy to reduce downtime and data loss.
# Cloud service providers (CSPs)

# Managed service provider (MSP)/managed security service provider (MSSP)

# On-premises vs. off-premises

# Fog computing

# Edge computing

# Thin client

# Containers

# Microservices/API

# Infrastructure as code

## Software-defined networking (SDN)

## Software-defined visibility (SDV)

# Serverless architecture

# Services integration

# Resource policies

# Transit gateway

# Virtualization

## Virtual machine (VM) sprawl avoidance

## VM escape protection