# 2.3 Summarize secure application development, deployment and automation concepts

# Environment
    
## Development

## Test

## Staging

## Production

## Quality assurance (QA)

# Provisioning and deprovisioning

# Integrity measurement

# Secure coding techniques

## Normalization

## Stored procedures

## Obfuscation/camouflage

## Code reuse/dead code

## Server-side vs. client-side execution and validation

## Memory management

## Use of third-party libraries and software development kits (SDKs)
  
## Data exposure

# Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)

# Software diversity
    
## Compiler 

## Binary

# Automation/scripting

## Automated courses of action

## Continuous monitoring

## Continuous validation

## Continuous integration

## Continuous delivery

## Continuous deployment

# Elasticity

# Scalability

# Version control



# Practice Questions

A developer uses a group of SQL statements to accept input data for validation. What technique did the dev use to protect against SQL Injection attacks?

During testing, an app demonstrates poor performance with the amount of time a function in the database takes to retrieve results. What should devs do to the database to improve its performance?

- Input validation
- Error handling
- Code obfuscation
- Normalization

A dev checks code out of the central repo to adjust a looping SQL statement. The repo system annotates the change and who made the change, then applies a new coordinating number to the software code. What category does this type of secure coding practice represent?

- Provisioning
- Security automation
- Version control
- Change management

While developing an online application for a grocery store, a dev implements an open source API. This implementation reduces the testing effort and speeds up the development process. What technique did the dev execute?

- Input validation
- Code reuse
- Runtime code
- Code obfuscation

What development practice requires devs to incorporate code into a collective repo, where they compile and test the code every time they check code into the environment?

- Agile
- Continuous integration
- Baselining
- Waterfall