# 2.4 Summarize authentication and authorization design concepts

# Authentication methods

##  Directory services
    
## Federation
    
##  Attestation

# Authentication Technologies
## Time-based one-time password (TOTP)
⏱️ Time-based one-time passwords (TOTP) are temporary codes valid for a particular time after being generated. TOTPs offer advantages by making it challenging to predict the codes based on the time factor used by the algorithm that produces them and preventing replay attacks.
## HMAC-based one-time password (HOTP)
🎟️ Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC) one-time passwords (HOTP) are event-based one-time passwords. These codes are generated when requested and will be valid until an authentication service has validated them.
## Short message service (SMS)
📳 Short message service (SMS) authentication codes are time-sensitive codes sent over text messages. These codes are used as two-factor authentication on most websites and apps.
## Token key
⛓️ Token keys are typically a string of characters that act as a unique identifier to authenticate a user or device to an app or system. In most cases, tokens are generated by the app or system and are either one-time or time-sensitive. These tokens may also be referred to as OAuth or Access Tokens. Many of us have used these tokens without realizing it, such as on mobile apps.
## Static codes
🗝️ Static codes are security codes used as debit card PINs and smartphone locks that don't use biometrics or a design. These codes only change whenever the user prompts them to be changed or when a new debit card is issued.
## Authentication applications
🔏 Authentication apps generate TOTPs that can be used as a two-factor authentication method on several websites and apps. Examples of some authentication apps are Authy, Google Authenticator, and Microsoft Authenticator.
## Push notifications
📱 Push notifications can be used as two-factor authentication. Some services, such as Microsoft Authenticator and Gmail, will use push notifications to another device to have a user confirm they were the one trying to log in. Some push notifications require additional steps, such as matching a number instead of entering a code.
## Phone/Voice call
📞 Voice call: some websites and apps may offer an automated voice call as an option for two-factor authentication

## Smart card authentication

# Biometrics
Biometrics for authentication is becoming more popular in the cybersecurity industry as a way to secure personal information. Fingerprint and facial recognition technology are just a few examples of biometrics that systems can use to verify a user's identity. While this method may be more convenient than traditional passwords, it's important to note that biometrics can also be compromised. 

It's crucial to have proper security measures in place to protect biometric data and to keep it out of the wrong hands.

## Fingerprint

## Retina

##  Iris

##  Facial

## Voice

## Vein

## Gait analysis

## Efficacy rates
    
##  False acceptance
    
##  False rejection
   
##  Crossover error rate




# Multifactor authentication (MFA) factors and attributes

## Factors:

### Something you know

### Something you have
   
###  Something you are
   
## Attributes
### Somewhere you are

###  Something you can do

###  Something you exhibit

###  Someone you know

# Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA)

# Cloud vs. on-premises requirements