# 2.6 Explain the security implications of embedded and specialized systems

# Embedded systems

## Raspberry Pi

## Field-programmable gate array (FPGA)

## Arduino

# Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)/industrial control system (ICS)

## Facilities

## Industrial

## Manufacturing

## Energy
  
## Logistics

# Internet of Things (IoT)
    
## Sensors

## Smart devices
  
## Wearables

## Facility automation
  
## Weak defaults

# Specialized
    
## Medical systems
  
## Vehicles
  
## Aircraft

## Smart meters

# Voice over IP (VoIP)

# Heating, ventilation, air conditioning (HVAC)

# Drones

# Multifunction printer (MFP)

# Real-time operating system (RTOS)

# Surveillance systems

# System on chip (SoC)

# Communication considerations
    
## 5G

## Narrow-band
  
## Baseband radio

## Subscriber identity module (SIM) cards

## Zigbee

# Constraints
    
## Power

## Compute

## Network

## Crypto

## Inability to patch

## Authentication

## Range
  
## Cost

## Implied trust


# Practice Questions

You're performing a security and risk assessment for a small business. The results indicate that issues exist with different control types. Maintaining system availability without risk requires remediation. When considering environmental security control solutions, which would you recommend the org implement?

- HVAC
- Cable locks
- CCTV
- Sprinkler systems

A tech giant recently fired a disgruntled employee. Before the employee left the building, the employee set off a false alarm in the broiler room, causing an emergency. What did the employee trigger to cause the alarm?

- Video entryphone
- Smart watch
- Physical acccess control system
- Sensors

What technology is solely capable of providing up to 2 Mbps speeds for embedded systems and is also compatible with 5G networks?

- NB-IoT
- Zigbee
- LTE-M
- SIM Cards