# 2.7 Explain the importance of physical security controls

## Bollards/barricades

## Access control vestibules
🚪 Access controls limit access to a building or specific areas only to authorized personnel to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information and systems. Access control systems work hand in hand with employee badges.
## Badges
📛 Employee badges are an essential security control as they can verify identity and be used to control access to specific areas within a building. Badges can help prevent unauthorized access to sensitive information and systems and help quickly identify personnel in the event of a security incident.
## Alarms
⏰ Alarms are essential to security because they can alert personnel to potential intrusions or attempted theft of equipment or data. Alarm systems can help minimize the potential damage caused.
## Signage
⚠️ Posting signage can indicate the presence of security systems, such as CCTV cameras, access control systems, and alarms. This can help to deter potential intruders and can also help to guide authorized personnel to the appropriate locations.
# Cameras
📹 Surveillance systems, such as CCTV cameras, can be used to monitor activity within a facility and can be used to deter or detect intrusions or other security breaches. Most surveillance systems are capable of motion detection, and some are capable of object detection, including facial recognition and license plate reading, thanks to AI.
### Motion recognition

### Object detection

### Closed-circuit television (CCTV)

## Industrial camouflage

# Personnel
💂 Personnel, such as security guards and receptionists, can help deter bad actors and respond to security incidents.
## Guards

## Robot sentries

## Reception

## Two-person integrity/control

Locks

    * Biometrics
    * Electronic
    * Physical
    * Cable locks

USB data blocker

Lighting

Fencing

Fire suppression

Sensors

    * Motion detection
    * Noise detection
    * Proximity reader
    * Moisture detection
    * Cards
    * Temperature

Drones

Visitor logs

Faraday cages

Air gap

Screened subnet (previously known as demilitarized zone)

Protected cable distribution

Secure areas

    * Air gap
    * Vault
    * Safe
    * Hot aisle
    * Cold aisle

Secure data destruction
    
    * Burning
    * Shredding
    * Pulping
    * Pulverizing
    * Degaussing
    * Third-party solutions