# 4.3 Given an incident utilize appropriate data sources to support an investigation

# Vulnerability scan output

# SIEM dashboards

## Sensor

## Sensitivity

## Trends

## Alerts

## Correlation

# Log files

## Network

## System

## Application

## Security

## Web

## DNS

## Authentication

## Dump files

## VoIP and call managers

## Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) traffic

# syslog/rsyslog/syslog-ng

# journalctl

# NXLog

# Bandwidth monitors

# Metadata

## Email

## Mobile

## Web

## File

# Netflow/sFlow

## Netflow

## sFlow

## IPFIX

# Protocol analyzer output

# Practice Questions

A network admin suspects an ongoing attack on a web server. She needs to identify the type of traffic sent from a specific IP address and inspect the packet flags. Which of the following is the best tool to meet this need?

- Vulnerability scan
- SIEM
- Netcat
- Protocol analyzer

The network includes several servers. Admins in the org are having problems aggregating and correlating the logs from these servers. Which of the following provides the best solution for these problems?

- Syslog
- sFlow
- NetFlow
- SIEM

You suspect servers in the DMZ are being attacked from an internet-based attacker. You want to view IPv4 packet data reaching these servers. Which of the following would be the best choice to meet this need?

- IP scanner
- Heuristic-based IDS
- Vulnerability scanner
- Protocol analyzer
- Proxy server

Your org manages a high-speed data center used to provide cloud-based data storage for multiple customers. Management wants to implement a method to collect a sample of network traffic going in and out of the data center. Which of the following is the best choice to meet this need?

- sFlow
- IPEcho
- IPFlex
- NetFlow
