1-Threats-Attacks-and-Vulnerabilities/1.1 Compare and contrast different types of social engineering techniques.md, before:

# 1.1 Compare and contrast different types of social engineering techniques

# Social Engineering

Social engineering is the use of deception to manipulate individuals into divulging confidential or personal information that may be used for fraudlent purposes.


# Phishing

🎣 𝗣𝗵𝗶𝘀𝗵𝗶𝗻𝗴 is a method used to trick people into giving out sensitive information such as login credentials, financial or personal information. Often phishing attempts are made via an email that appears to be from a legit company and asking the recipient to click a link or open an attachment. When the user clicks on the link, it directs them to a fake website that looks real, which prompts them to enter their login information. Attackers can then use this info to access the person's accounts and commit fraud.

📖 By definition: the fraudulent practice of sending emails or other messages purporting to be from reputable companies to induce individuals to reveal personal information, such as passwords and credit card numbers.

Phishing uses social engineering with an added touch of spoofing.
    
* Often delivered by email, text, etc.
* Remarkable when well done
* Always check the URL
* There's usually typos or weird fonts or messed up logos/graphics

Attackers use tricks to get users to click on these links and sign into the pages.

# Types of phishing attacks:

## Smishing

📱 𝗦𝗺𝗶𝘀𝗵𝗶𝗻𝗴, also known as SMS phishing, is a method that uses text messages to trick people into giving out sensitive information or clicking on a malicious link. Like phishing, smishing attacks often try to mimic a legit company. They may use urgent or threatening language to get the recipient to act quickly without thinking. An attacker might send a text message claiming to be from a bank and ask the recipient to click on a link to update their account info or verify a recent purchase. If the user clicks on the link, they are taken to a fake website and asked to enter their login info. Or worse, the link may install malware on the user's device.

📖 By definition: the fraudulent practice of sending text messages purporting to be from reputable companies to induce individuals to reveal personal information, such as passwords or credit card numbers.

* Number spoofing can be used with this technique
* Links may be sent or personal information may be requested
* There may be variations in theme. 
    * Fake phone verification codes may be sent, fake check scams, boss/CEO scams, advance-fee scams, etc. 

## Vishing

☎️ 𝗩𝗶𝘀𝗵𝗶𝗻𝗴, also known as voice phishing, is a method that uses phone calls to trick people into giving out sensitive information or transferring money. Like phishing and smishing, vishing attacks often try to mimic a legitimate organization or company. They may use urgent or threatening language to get the recipient to act quickly without thinking. An attacker might call claiming to be from their bank. They may claim suspicious activity on their account and ask for their online banking username, password, or other sensitive information to verify their identity. Alternatively, the attacker might tell the person they owe money and need to pay immediately to avoid legal consequences.

📖 By definition: the fraudulent practice of making phone calls or leaving voice messages purporting to be from reputable companies in order to induce individuals to reveal personal information, such as bank details and credit card numbers.

* Attackers typically use Caller ID spoofing to make it look like a local phone number.
* The voicemails, or excuse they use

## Spearphishing

Spearphishing attacks are very directed phishing attacks. 

* These attacks are very believable as the attacker typically gathers information about individuals, groups of individuals, or organizations by using third-party websites and/or social media pages.

## Whaling

A spearphishing attack that targets a person in control of an organization or in control of a lot of money is called whaling.

* It's common for attackers to go after the CEO or CFO because they have access to sensitive information such as the corporate bank account.
* These attacks are well written phishing emails that convince users to log into a fake website.

It's important to inform executives of these types of attacks to ensure they're familiar with them as they are likely to encounter them at some point.

# Types of tricks

## Pharming

Attackers use this method to target multiple victims at one time. This occurs when an attacker is able to take over an entire website or DNS server. Legit websites may be used but the users will be redirected to the attacker's website.

* Redirection of a legit website to a fake website.
* Typically a poisoned DNS server or client vuln.
    * Pharming is typically combined with phishing. The phishing occurs once a user attempts to log in to the website. 
* Users have a hard time determining when this has occurred due to the site's looking legitimate. 
* Third-party anti-malware software may not recognize a problem when pharming occurs. 

## Spam

Employs social engineering techniques to try getting recipients to click on links within the message. Spam is also referred to as junk email, or unsolicited email.
- Typically relies on the "spray and pray" mindset; if you send enough convincing messages, you're likely to get someone eventually.

## Spam over instant messaging (SPIM)

Ex: A user receives an offer to buy crypto through a series of texts

## Tailgating

When an individual follows an authorized employee through a door, where an employee RFID badge is required to gain access. Organizations typically have a tailgating policy to ensure employees don't allow anyone to follow behind without scanning their badge.

Mantraps can be used to deter tailgating.
## Prepending

An attacker may prepend an additional character to the beginning of the URL. If a user isn't paying close attention, this can be easily missed.

* Ex: wwebsite[.]com 

Notice the extra w at the beginning of the URL

## Invoice scams

Attackers will submit fake invoices mimicking legit vendors. These fake invoices are typically sent via email, but may also be sent through the postal service. 

These invoices will change the destination account from the vendor to the attacker's account.

## Credential harvesting

Credential harvesting is the process of stealing sensitive information, like usernames and passwords, through phishing attacks, malware, or other malicious methods. Stolen credentials are then used to gain unauthorized access to systems, networks, and services. 
- Financial attacks are a top target once credentials are harvested.
- While difficult to completely stop, MFA is a strong security control that can help reduce the impact of successful attacks.
- Additionally, user awareness, monitoring, and strong incident response plans can help protect against these attacks.


## Reconnaissance

This method is used to collect information on a victim, or groups of victims. Some of the information used comes from social media, corporate websites, personal websites, online background checks, etc. 

* Attacks may be able to determine where you live, where you bank, who you work with, who your friends and family are, recent transactions you've made, etc. 


## Impersonation

The best attackers are extremely good at impersonating others. 

Attackers pretend to be someone they aren't. Attackers will use reconnaissance to perform impersonation attempts. They will also typically act as someone higher in rank. They may act extremely friendly and bring up things happening in your town to make the victim more comfortable with talking to them.

* Attackers will call claiming to be from reputable companies, such as an ISP claiming to be calling to provide assistance with router issues. 
* Attackers may leave voicemails claiming to be from the IRS or US Treasury, claiming something needs immediate attention otherwise law enforcement may be required to become involved.
* Other times, attackers will try claiming you have won a once in a life time trip or congratulate you on perfect payment history then offering a 0% interest rate on any credit card accounts.
    * It's important to remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it typically IS too good to be true and is a scam. 


## Eliciting information

This occurs once an attacker has a victim comfortable and allows them to start getting information out of the victim. Attackers will ask for email addresses, passwords, and any other personal and sensitive information they can. If the attacker is impersonating a persons bank, they may try getting SSNs, recent transaction information, or DOB - basically, they will ask for anything that may make sense for the person they are impersonating to have verified.

* This is most commonly done through vishing attacks but can occur through email phishing or smishing attacks.


## Identity fraud

Attackers commit identity fraud when they use someone else's personal identifiable information (PII) to commit fraud. 

ID theft may result in credit cards and loans being opened in your name without you authorizing the accounts being opened, but sometimes ID theft is used to get medical services or used to file taxes. ID theft can damage your credit and is extremely time consuming & expensive to recover from.


## Watering hole attack

<a href="https://securityzines.com/#zines"><img src="https://securityzines.com/assets/img/flyers/downloads/wateringholeattack.png"></a>

In a watering hole attack, an attacker targets a specific group of victims through the use of compromised websites that are well known/frequently used by the victims. These websites will become infected with malware, which will infect the users' computer(s) to steal a large amount of data. 

## Typosquatting

A common method attackers will use to make a URL look similar to the legit website URL.

## Pretexting

Lying to get information

The attacker is typically a character in a situation they make up.

## Influence campaigns

These campaigns typically focus on social media, email, and other online platforms to target their victims. These are typical larger-scale campaigns, launched by a threat actor or a group of threat actors, aiming to manipulate public opinion. Typically, these groups are nation-states, terrorists, or hackivists. 

Influence campaigns have become part of hybrid warfare, which includes, but is not limited to:
- Propoganda & information warfare
- Cyberwarfare

## Hybrid warfare


## Hoax


## Social media

## Dumpster diving

Attackers will go dumpster diving as a social engineering technique. If individuals and/or organizations don't use shredders or a shredding service when throwing away sensitive information, this information provides more insight into an individual's role or an organization's operations and customers.

## Shoulder surfing

  
# Principles (reasons for effectiveness)

## Authority

## Intimidation

## Consensus

## Scarcity

## Familiarity

## Trust

## Urgency


# Practice Questions

Management recently mandated that computer monitors must be positioned so they cannot be viewed from anyone outside the windows. Additionally, users are directed to place screen filters over their monitors. hat is the purpose of this policy?

- Reduce success of dumpster diving
- Reduce success of prepending
- Reduce success of phishing
- Reduce success of shoulder surfing

Attackers recently sent some malicious emails to the CFO within your org. These emails have forged From blocks and look like they are coming from the CEO of the org. These include a PDF file that is described as an unpaid invoice, however the PDF is infected with malware. Which of the following best describes the attack type in this scenario?

- Whaling
- SPIM
- Vishing
- Phishing

Commit message:

Update 1.1 Compare and contrast different types of social engineering techniques.md
Hybrid warfare notes

1-Threats-Attacks-and-Vulnerabilities/1.1 Compare and contrast different types of social engineering techniques.md, after:

# 1.1 Compare and contrast different types of social engineering techniques

# Social Engineering

Social engineering is the use of deception to manipulate individuals into divulging confidential or personal information that may be used for fraudlent purposes.


# Phishing

🎣 𝗣𝗵𝗶𝘀𝗵𝗶𝗻𝗴 is a method used to trick people into giving out sensitive information such as login credentials, financial or personal information. Often phishing attempts are made via an email that appears to be from a legit company and asking the recipient to click a link or open an attachment. When the user clicks on the link, it directs them to a fake website that looks real, which prompts them to enter their login information. Attackers can then use this info to access the person's accounts and commit fraud.

📖 By definition: the fraudulent practice of sending emails or other messages purporting to be from reputable companies to induce individuals to reveal personal information, such as passwords and credit card numbers.

Phishing uses social engineering with an added touch of spoofing.
    
* Often delivered by email, text, etc.
* Remarkable when well done
* Always check the URL
* There's usually typos or weird fonts or messed up logos/graphics

Attackers use tricks to get users to click on these links and sign into the pages.

# Types of phishing attacks:

## Smishing

📱 𝗦𝗺𝗶𝘀𝗵𝗶𝗻𝗴, also known as SMS phishing, is a method that uses text messages to trick people into giving out sensitive information or clicking on a malicious link. Like phishing, smishing attacks often try to mimic a legit company. They may use urgent or threatening language to get the recipient to act quickly without thinking. An attacker might send a text message claiming to be from a bank and ask the recipient to click on a link to update their account info or verify a recent purchase. If the user clicks on the link, they are taken to a fake website and asked to enter their login info. Or worse, the link may install malware on the user's device.

📖 By definition: the fraudulent practice of sending text messages purporting to be from reputable companies to induce individuals to reveal personal information, such as passwords or credit card numbers.

* Number spoofing can be used with this technique
* Links may be sent or personal information may be requested
* There may be variations in theme. 
    * Fake phone verification codes may be sent, fake check scams, boss/CEO scams, advance-fee scams, etc. 

## Vishing

☎️ 𝗩𝗶𝘀𝗵𝗶𝗻𝗴, also known as voice phishing, is a method that uses phone calls to trick people into giving out sensitive information or transferring money. Like phishing and smishing, vishing attacks often try to mimic a legitimate organization or company. They may use urgent or threatening language to get the recipient to act quickly without thinking. An attacker might call claiming to be from their bank. They may claim suspicious activity on their account and ask for their online banking username, password, or other sensitive information to verify their identity. Alternatively, the attacker might tell the person they owe money and need to pay immediately to avoid legal consequences.

📖 By definition: the fraudulent practice of making phone calls or leaving voice messages purporting to be from reputable companies in order to induce individuals to reveal personal information, such as bank details and credit card numbers.

* Attackers typically use Caller ID spoofing to make it look like a local phone number.
* The voicemails, or excuse they use

## Spearphishing

Spearphishing attacks are very directed phishing attacks. 

* These attacks are very believable as the attacker typically gathers information about individuals, groups of individuals, or organizations by using third-party websites and/or social media pages.

## Whaling

A spearphishing attack that targets a person in control of an organization or in control of a lot of money is called whaling.

* It's common for attackers to go after the CEO or CFO because they have access to sensitive information such as the corporate bank account.
* These attacks are well written phishing emails that convince users to log into a fake website.

It's important to inform executives of these types of attacks to ensure they're familiar with them as they are likely to encounter them at some point.

# Types of tricks

## Pharming

Attackers use this method to target multiple victims at one time. This occurs when an attacker is able to take over an entire website or DNS server. Legit websites may be used but the users will be redirected to the attacker's website.

* Redirection of a legit website to a fake website.
* Typically a poisoned DNS server or client vuln.
    * Pharming is typically combined with phishing. The phishing occurs once a user attempts to log in to the website. 
* Users have a hard time determining when this has occurred due to the site's looking legitimate. 
* Third-party anti-malware software may not recognize a problem when pharming occurs. 

## Spam

Employs social engineering techniques to try getting recipients to click on links within the message. Spam is also referred to as junk email, or unsolicited email.
- Typically relies on the "spray and pray" mindset; if you send enough convincing messages, you're likely to get someone eventually.

## Spam over instant messaging (SPIM)

Ex: A user receives an offer to buy crypto through a series of texts

## Tailgating

When an individual follows an authorized employee through a door, where an employee RFID badge is required to gain access. Organizations typically have a tailgating policy to ensure employees don't allow anyone to follow behind without scanning their badge.

Mantraps can be used to deter tailgating.
## Prepending

An attacker may prepend an additional character to the beginning of the URL. If a user isn't paying close attention, this can be easily missed.

* Ex: wwebsite[.]com 

Notice the extra w at the beginning of the URL

## Invoice scams

Attackers will submit fake invoices mimicking legit vendors. These fake invoices are typically sent via email, but may also be sent through the postal service. 

These invoices will change the destination account from the vendor to the attacker's account.

## Credential harvesting

Credential harvesting is the process of stealing sensitive information, like usernames and passwords, through phishing attacks, malware, or other malicious methods. Stolen credentials are then used to gain unauthorized access to systems, networks, and services. 
- Financial attacks are a top target once credentials are harvested.
- While difficult to completely stop, MFA is a strong security control that can help reduce the impact of successful attacks.
- Additionally, user awareness, monitoring, and strong incident response plans can help protect against these attacks.


## Reconnaissance

This method is used to collect information on a victim, or groups of victims. Some of the information used comes from social media, corporate websites, personal websites, online background checks, etc. 

* Attacks may be able to determine where you live, where you bank, who you work with, who your friends and family are, recent transactions you've made, etc. 


## Impersonation

The best attackers are extremely good at impersonating others. 

Attackers pretend to be someone they aren't. Attackers will use reconnaissance to perform impersonation attempts. They will also typically act as someone higher in rank. They may act extremely friendly and bring up things happening in your town to make the victim more comfortable with talking to them.

* Attackers will call claiming to be from reputable companies, such as an ISP claiming to be calling to provide assistance with router issues. 
* Attackers may leave voicemails claiming to be from the IRS or US Treasury, claiming something needs immediate attention otherwise law enforcement may be required to become involved.
* Other times, attackers will try claiming you have won a once in a life time trip or congratulate you on perfect payment history then offering a 0% interest rate on any credit card accounts.
    * It's important to remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it typically IS too good to be true and is a scam. 


## Eliciting information

This occurs once an attacker has a victim comfortable and allows them to start getting information out of the victim. Attackers will ask for email addresses, passwords, and any other personal and sensitive information they can. If the attacker is impersonating a persons bank, they may try getting SSNs, recent transaction information, or DOB - basically, they will ask for anything that may make sense for the person they are impersonating to have verified.

* This is most commonly done through vishing attacks but can occur through email phishing or smishing attacks.


## Identity fraud

Attackers commit identity fraud when they use someone else's personal identifiable information (PII) to commit fraud. 

ID theft may result in credit cards and loans being opened in your name without you authorizing the accounts being opened, but sometimes ID theft is used to get medical services or used to file taxes. ID theft can damage your credit and is extremely time consuming & expensive to recover from.


## Watering hole attack

<a href="https://securityzines.com/#zines"><img src="https://securityzines.com/assets/img/flyers/downloads/wateringholeattack.png"></a>

In a watering hole attack, an attacker targets a specific group of victims through the use of compromised websites that are well known/frequently used by the victims. These websites will become infected with malware, which will infect the users' computer(s) to steal a large amount of data. 

## Typosquatting

A common method attackers will use to make a URL look similar to the legit website URL.

## Pretexting

Lying to get information

The attacker is typically a character in a situation they make up.

## Influence campaigns

These campaigns typically focus on social media, email, and other online platforms to target their victims. These are typical larger-scale campaigns, launched by a threat actor or a group of threat actors, aiming to manipulate public opinion. Typically, these groups are nation-states, terrorists, or hackivists. 

Influence campaigns have become part of hybrid warfare, which includes, but is not limited to:
- Propoganda & information warfare
- Cyberwarfare

## Hybrid warfare

Hybrid warfare uses conventional and unconventional means. 

Examples of hybrid warfare include, but are not limited to, campaigns that use methods such as:
- Hacking
- Spreading disinformation or fake news
- Espionage

## Hoax


## Social media

## Dumpster diving

Attackers will go dumpster diving as a social engineering technique. If individuals and/or organizations don't use shredders or a shredding service when throwing away sensitive information, this information provides more insight into an individual's role or an organization's operations and customers.

## Shoulder surfing

  
# Principles (reasons for effectiveness)

## Authority

## Intimidation

## Consensus

## Scarcity

## Familiarity

## Trust

## Urgency


# Practice Questions

Management recently mandated that computer monitors must be positioned so they cannot be viewed from anyone outside the windows. Additionally, users are directed to place screen filters over their monitors. hat is the purpose of this policy?

- Reduce success of dumpster diving
- Reduce success of prepending
- Reduce success of phishing
- Reduce success of shoulder surfing

Attackers recently sent some malicious emails to the CFO within your org. These emails have forged From blocks and look like they are coming from the CEO of the org. These include a PDF file that is described as an unpaid invoice, however the PDF is infected with malware. Which of the following best describes the attack type in this scenario?

- Whaling
- SPIM
- Vishing
- Phishing
