1-Threats-Attacks-and-Vulnerabilities/1.2 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators to determine the type of attack.md, before:

# 1.2 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators to determine the type of attack

# Malware

Malware, short for malicious software, is any software designed to harm or exploit computer systems. There are many different types of malware, each with its unique characteristics and attack methods.

## Virus

🦠 Virus: A virus attaches itself to a legitimate file and replicates itself when the infected file is executed. Once infected, the virus can spread to other computers through shared networks or removable media.

## Ransomware

💰Ransomware: Ransomware is malware that encrypts a victim's files, making them inaccessible until a ransom is paid to the attackers. Ransomware is typically spread through phishing emails or malicious websites.

## Trojans

🐴 Trojan horses: A Trojan horse is a type of malware that disguises itself as a legitimate program or file, but once executed, it can perform malicious actions, such as stealing personal information or creating a back door for attackers to gain access to the infected computer.

## Worms

🐛 Worms: A worm is a type of malware that can replicate and spread itself to other computers without needing a host program or file. Worms can spread through networks, email attachments, and instant messaging.

## Potentially unwanted programs (PUPs)

Software programs that may contain features or functionality that are unwanted, unnecessary, or potentially harmful to the user. PUPs can be bundled with other software, downloaded from unreliable websites, or installed through malicious means, such as drive-by downloads or phishing scams.

PUPs may include adware, toolbars, browser extensions, and other types of software that install additional components or change the behavior of a computer or a web browser without the user's explicit consent. These programs may cause pop-up advertisements, slow down the performance of the computer, collect sensitive information, or redirect the user's browser to unwanted websites. 

To avoid PUPs, it is important to carefully review the installation process of any software, to only download software from reputable sources, and to install an antivirus program and keep it updated.

##  Fileless virus

Fileless viruses spread through methods such as spam email and malicious websites. They can exploit flaws in browser extensions and plug-ins, and even browsers themselves. 

These viruses have the ability to reinfect the system through the same process at reboot, using registry entries or other techniques. These viruses don't require local file storage as they remain in memory. 

##  Bots

Bots are remotely controlled systems or computers that have been infected by malware. 
- Groups of bots are referred to as botnets, which are controlled by attackers who use a command and control system.
- Large scale botnets can include hundreds, if not, thousands of infected devices. There have been some reported to have millions of bots. 

Botnets are used to perform, but are not limited to, the following:
- Denial-of-service attacks
- Spam relays
- Additional infection

##  Command and control

Most botnet command and control systems work in a client-server model. The devices will contact the central control system(s) which provides them commands & updates, and tracks how many systems make up the entire botnet.

IRC, or Internet Relay Chat, was used to manage these botnets in the past, but modern botnets rely on HTTPS traffic, which helps hide the traffic, preventing them from being easily identified by analysts and software.

##  Cryptomalware

## Logic bombs

## Spyware

Malicious software designed to collect sensitive information from a computer or network without the user's knowledge. Spyware can be installed on a computer using a variety of methods, including drive-by downloads, email attachments, or by exploiting software vulnerabilities. Once installed, spyware can track a user's activity online, steal login credentials and financial data, monitor keystrokes, and take screenshots. 

- Some spyware can control webcams, including USB webcams and webcams built-in on laptops.
- Some forms of spyware can manipulate the behavior of a computer and it's browser, causing a user to be redirected to malicious sites.
- Spyware can be difficult to detect and to remove, which poses a serious threat to privacy and security. 

Keeping software up to date, using a trusted antivirus app, and downloading trusted software can help protect users from spyware.

## Keyloggers

## Remote access Trojan (RAT)

## Rootkit

⚙️ Rootkits: A rootkit is a type of malware designed to hide the presence of other malware, such as viruses or Trojan horses, by modifying the operating system or hiding files. Rootkits can be challenging to detect and remove.

Modern rootkits include the ability to avoid detection using a variety of techniques, such as:
- Infecting startup code, allowing attacks against FDE
- Utilizing filesystem drivers

The best way to detect a rootkit is by testing the suspected system from a trusted device/system. If this isn't possible, there are tools that can be used to detect signatures and behavior typical of rootkits. 

The following techniques can be helpful in detecting rootkits:
- Data validation
- Integrity checking

A common method of recovering from a rootkit is to rebuild the system, or restore to a known good backup before the rootkit affected the system.

## Backdoor

Backdoors are tools that provide access by bypassing normal authentication and authorization processes. Bad actors use backdoors, which can be software or hardware based, and provide access to systems, endpoints, or apps. 

Trojans and rootkits often use backdoors to allow attackers to maintain access once a systen has been infected. 

To detect backdoors, you can sometimes check for unexpected open ports and unused services, but some backdoors will use known services. 

# Password attacks

## Spraying

## Dictionary Attacks

### Brute force

### Offline

### Online

## Rainbow table

## Plaintext/unencrypted

# Physical attacks

Physical attacks on computer systems can include things like:

📌 Tampering with or damaging equipment to disrupt or gain unauthorized access to a system

📌 Eavesdropping on network communications

📌 Social engineering tactics to gain physical access to a system or facility

Organizations can use a combination of the following measures to prevent physical attacks:

🔐 Restrict physical access to sensitive areas and equipment through the use of security personnel, security cameras, and access controls like keycards or biometric scanners

🔐 Regularly inspect and monitor equipment for signs of tampering or damage.

🔐 Implement security protocols for handling and disposing of sensitive data and hardware, such as hard drives

🔐 Provide security and awareness training for employees, contractors, and third-party vendors.

🔐 Create incident response and disaster recovery plans.

It's important to remember that physical security is just as important as network security when defending against unauthorized access to computer systems.


## Malicious Universal Serial Bus (USB) cable

## Malicious flash drive
    
## Card cloning

## Skimming

# Adversarial artificial intelligence (AI)
## Tainted training data for machine learning (ML)

## Security of machine learning algorithms

# Supply-chain attacks

# Cloud-based vs. on-premises attacks

# Cryptographic attacks

## Birthday

A birthday attack is a cryptographic attack that exploits the probability of collisions in a hash function.

In a hash function, any input data of arbitrary size is converted into a fixed size output - different inputs **should** produce different outputs. However, due to the mathematical nature of hash functions, it **is** possible for two different inputs to produce the same output. This is known as a collision.

These attacks take advantage of the probability of collisions by attempting to find two different inputs that produce the same hash value. The name comes from the concept of the birthday paradox, which states that in a group of 23 people, there's a 50% chance of two people sharing the same birthday.

Birthday attacks can be used to break the security of cryptographic systems that rely on hash functions like:

- Digital signatures
- Password authentication
- Message authentication codes (MACs)

To mitigate birthday attacks, salting and key stretching should be used to increase the complexity.

## Collision
    
## Downgrade

Commit message:

Update 1.2 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators to determine the type of attack.md
Logic bomb notes

1-Threats-Attacks-and-Vulnerabilities/1.2 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators to determine the type of attack.md, after:

# 1.2 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators to determine the type of attack

# Malware

Malware, short for malicious software, is any software designed to harm or exploit computer systems. There are many different types of malware, each with its unique characteristics and attack methods.

## Virus

🦠 Virus: A virus attaches itself to a legitimate file and replicates itself when the infected file is executed. Once infected, the virus can spread to other computers through shared networks or removable media.

## Ransomware

💰Ransomware: Ransomware is malware that encrypts a victim's files, making them inaccessible until a ransom is paid to the attackers. Ransomware is typically spread through phishing emails or malicious websites.

## Trojans

🐴 Trojan horses: A Trojan horse is a type of malware that disguises itself as a legitimate program or file, but once executed, it can perform malicious actions, such as stealing personal information or creating a back door for attackers to gain access to the infected computer.

## Worms

🐛 Worms: A worm is a type of malware that can replicate and spread itself to other computers without needing a host program or file. Worms can spread through networks, email attachments, and instant messaging.

## Potentially unwanted programs (PUPs)

Software programs that may contain features or functionality that are unwanted, unnecessary, or potentially harmful to the user. PUPs can be bundled with other software, downloaded from unreliable websites, or installed through malicious means, such as drive-by downloads or phishing scams.

PUPs may include adware, toolbars, browser extensions, and other types of software that install additional components or change the behavior of a computer or a web browser without the user's explicit consent. These programs may cause pop-up advertisements, slow down the performance of the computer, collect sensitive information, or redirect the user's browser to unwanted websites. 

To avoid PUPs, it is important to carefully review the installation process of any software, to only download software from reputable sources, and to install an antivirus program and keep it updated.

##  Fileless virus

Fileless viruses spread through methods such as spam email and malicious websites. They can exploit flaws in browser extensions and plug-ins, and even browsers themselves. 

These viruses have the ability to reinfect the system through the same process at reboot, using registry entries or other techniques. These viruses don't require local file storage as they remain in memory. 

##  Bots

Bots are remotely controlled systems or computers that have been infected by malware. 
- Groups of bots are referred to as botnets, which are controlled by attackers who use a command and control system.
- Large scale botnets can include hundreds, if not, thousands of infected devices. There have been some reported to have millions of bots. 

Botnets are used to perform, but are not limited to, the following:
- Denial-of-service attacks
- Spam relays
- Additional infection

##  Command and control

Most botnet command and control systems work in a client-server model. The devices will contact the central control system(s) which provides them commands & updates, and tracks how many systems make up the entire botnet.

IRC, or Internet Relay Chat, was used to manage these botnets in the past, but modern botnets rely on HTTPS traffic, which helps hide the traffic, preventing them from being easily identified by analysts and software.

##  Cryptomalware

## Logic bombs

Logic bombs aren't independent malicious programs. These are functions of code that are contained within other applications and active when a specific set of conditions are met. 

## Spyware

Malicious software designed to collect sensitive information from a computer or network without the user's knowledge. Spyware can be installed on a computer using a variety of methods, including drive-by downloads, email attachments, or by exploiting software vulnerabilities. Once installed, spyware can track a user's activity online, steal login credentials and financial data, monitor keystrokes, and take screenshots. 

- Some spyware can control webcams, including USB webcams and webcams built-in on laptops.
- Some forms of spyware can manipulate the behavior of a computer and it's browser, causing a user to be redirected to malicious sites.
- Spyware can be difficult to detect and to remove, which poses a serious threat to privacy and security. 

Keeping software up to date, using a trusted antivirus app, and downloading trusted software can help protect users from spyware.

## Keyloggers

## Remote access Trojan (RAT)

## Rootkit

⚙️ Rootkits: A rootkit is a type of malware designed to hide the presence of other malware, such as viruses or Trojan horses, by modifying the operating system or hiding files. Rootkits can be challenging to detect and remove.

Modern rootkits include the ability to avoid detection using a variety of techniques, such as:
- Infecting startup code, allowing attacks against FDE
- Utilizing filesystem drivers

The best way to detect a rootkit is by testing the suspected system from a trusted device/system. If this isn't possible, there are tools that can be used to detect signatures and behavior typical of rootkits. 

The following techniques can be helpful in detecting rootkits:
- Data validation
- Integrity checking

A common method of recovering from a rootkit is to rebuild the system, or restore to a known good backup before the rootkit affected the system.

## Backdoor

Backdoors are tools that provide access by bypassing normal authentication and authorization processes. Bad actors use backdoors, which can be software or hardware based, and provide access to systems, endpoints, or apps. 

Trojans and rootkits often use backdoors to allow attackers to maintain access once a systen has been infected. 

To detect backdoors, you can sometimes check for unexpected open ports and unused services, but some backdoors will use known services. 

# Password attacks

## Spraying

## Dictionary Attacks

### Brute force

### Offline

### Online

## Rainbow table

## Plaintext/unencrypted

# Physical attacks

Physical attacks on computer systems can include things like:

📌 Tampering with or damaging equipment to disrupt or gain unauthorized access to a system

📌 Eavesdropping on network communications

📌 Social engineering tactics to gain physical access to a system or facility

Organizations can use a combination of the following measures to prevent physical attacks:

🔐 Restrict physical access to sensitive areas and equipment through the use of security personnel, security cameras, and access controls like keycards or biometric scanners

🔐 Regularly inspect and monitor equipment for signs of tampering or damage.

🔐 Implement security protocols for handling and disposing of sensitive data and hardware, such as hard drives

🔐 Provide security and awareness training for employees, contractors, and third-party vendors.

🔐 Create incident response and disaster recovery plans.

It's important to remember that physical security is just as important as network security when defending against unauthorized access to computer systems.


## Malicious Universal Serial Bus (USB) cable

## Malicious flash drive
    
## Card cloning

## Skimming

# Adversarial artificial intelligence (AI)
## Tainted training data for machine learning (ML)

## Security of machine learning algorithms

# Supply-chain attacks

# Cloud-based vs. on-premises attacks

# Cryptographic attacks

## Birthday

A birthday attack is a cryptographic attack that exploits the probability of collisions in a hash function.

In a hash function, any input data of arbitrary size is converted into a fixed size output - different inputs **should** produce different outputs. However, due to the mathematical nature of hash functions, it **is** possible for two different inputs to produce the same output. This is known as a collision.

These attacks take advantage of the probability of collisions by attempting to find two different inputs that produce the same hash value. The name comes from the concept of the birthday paradox, which states that in a group of 23 people, there's a 50% chance of two people sharing the same birthday.

Birthday attacks can be used to break the security of cryptographic systems that rely on hash functions like:

- Digital signatures
- Password authentication
- Message authentication codes (MACs)

To mitigate birthday attacks, salting and key stretching should be used to increase the complexity.

## Collision
    
## Downgrade
