# 1.3 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators associated with application attacks

# Privilege escalation (PrivEsc)
The objective of privilege escalation is to gain admin or root access on a computer system, allowing attackers to carry out further harm like installing malware, disrupting services, or stealing data.

Privilege escalation can occur from discovering weak passwords, manipulating misconfigurations, or as a result of exploiting a software vulnerability. 
# Cross-site scripting (XSS)
Cross-site scripting is a vulnerability that allows attackers to inject malicious code into websites that other users are viewing. This occurs when a webapp doesn't properly validate input from users, like a message posted on a forum or a search query, before including it into the rest of the webpage. 

- Malicious code can be either HTML or Javascript and will be executed by the browser of a user that visits the website.
- XSS can compromise a user's privacy and security as it's used to steal login information and financial data, can infect a computer with malware, and can assist attackers in launch phishing attacks.

It's crucial for developers to ensure websites properly validate user input and encode it before including it on the page.

End-users can use browser extensions with built-in XSS protection to help protect against these attacks.
# Injections

## Structured query language (SQL) 
   
## Dynamic-link library (DLL) 

## Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
   
## Extensible Markup Language (XML)

# Pointer/object dereference

# Directory traversal

# Buffer overflows

# Race conditions

## Time of check/time of use

# Error handling

# Improper input handling

# Replay attack

## Session replays

# Integer overflow

# Request forgeries

## Server-side
   
## Cross-site

# Application programming interface (API) attacks

# Resource exhaustion

# Memory leak

# Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) stripping

# Driver manipulation

## Shimming
## Refactoring

# Pass the hash