1-Threats-Attacks-and-Vulnerabilities/1.3 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators associated with application attacks.md, before:

# 1.3 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators associated with application attacks

# Privilege escalation (PrivEsc)

The objective of privilege escalation is to gain admin or root access on a computer system, allowing attackers to carry out further harm like installing malware, disrupting services, or stealing data.

Privilege escalation can occur from discovering weak passwords, manipulating misconfigurations, or as a result of exploiting a software vulnerability. 

# Cross-site scripting (XSS)

<a href="https://securityzines.com/#zines"><img src="https://securityzines.com/assets/img/flyers/downloads/intigriti/stored-xss.png"></a>

<a href="https://securityzines.com/#zines"><img src="https://securityzines.com/assets/img/flyers/downloads/rxss.png"></a>

Cross-site scripting is a vulnerability that allows attackers to inject malicious code into websites that other users are viewing. This occurs when a webapp doesn't properly validate input from users, like a message posted on a forum or a search query, before including it into the rest of the webpage. 

- Malicious code can be either HTML or Javascript and will be executed by the browser of a user that visits the website.
- XSS can compromise a user's privacy and security as it's used to steal login information and financial data, can infect a computer with malware, and can assist attackers in launch phishing attacks.

It's crucial for developers to ensure websites properly validate user input and encode it before including it on the page.

End-users can use browser extensions with built-in XSS protection to help protect against these attacks.

# Injections

Injection attacks are typically associated with SQL injection, however, there are many different types of injection attacks. 

These attacks occur when attackers add malicious code into a service, or an app, at runtime, and can cause:
- Denial of service
- A complete takeover
- Data loss

## Structured query language (SQL) 
   
## Dynamic-link library (DLL) 

## Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
   
## Extensible Markup Language (XML)

# Pointer/object dereference

# Directory traversal

# Buffer overflows

Buffers are where apps can temporarily write data. 

Buffer overflows occur when more data is written, or stored, than the space can allow. Attackers use these attacks to trigger errors or with the intention of crashing apps. 

# Race conditions

## Time of check/time of use

# Error handling

# Improper input handling

# Replay attack

These attacks occur when valid communication is repeatedly transmitted. 

To protect against these attacks, OTPs can be used to add another layer of defense, as well as adding timestamps on any communication to help minimize or block the attacks entirely.

## Session replays

# Integer overflow

# Request forgeries

## Server-side
   
## Cross-site

Also known as *CSRF* or *XSRF*.

These attacks target websites or apps from a legit and trusted browser session. Users transmit scripts to attack the app, knowingly or unknowingly. 
- Note: these attacks are different from Cross-site Scripting (XSS) as these exploit the trust established by the web app and the user accessing the information.

# Application programming interface (API) attacks

# Resource exhaustion

# Memory leak

# Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) stripping

# Driver manipulation

## Shimming

Shims allow different API versions to operate, however, these can create vulnerabilities as older APIs can be used to manipulate hardware.

## Refactoring

# Pass the hash

These attacks bypass the requirement of knowing a users credentials by passing the hash of the authenticated user to the resource.
- Note: these attacks are usually successful if passwords aren't changed often and the accounts don't have MFA enabled and enforced.

Commit message:

Update 1.3 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators associated with application attacks.md
Refactoring notes

1-Threats-Attacks-and-Vulnerabilities/1.3 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators associated with application attacks.md, after:

# 1.3 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators associated with application attacks

# Privilege escalation (PrivEsc)

The objective of privilege escalation is to gain admin or root access on a computer system, allowing attackers to carry out further harm like installing malware, disrupting services, or stealing data.

Privilege escalation can occur from discovering weak passwords, manipulating misconfigurations, or as a result of exploiting a software vulnerability. 

# Cross-site scripting (XSS)

<a href="https://securityzines.com/#zines"><img src="https://securityzines.com/assets/img/flyers/downloads/intigriti/stored-xss.png"></a>

<a href="https://securityzines.com/#zines"><img src="https://securityzines.com/assets/img/flyers/downloads/rxss.png"></a>

Cross-site scripting is a vulnerability that allows attackers to inject malicious code into websites that other users are viewing. This occurs when a webapp doesn't properly validate input from users, like a message posted on a forum or a search query, before including it into the rest of the webpage. 

- Malicious code can be either HTML or Javascript and will be executed by the browser of a user that visits the website.
- XSS can compromise a user's privacy and security as it's used to steal login information and financial data, can infect a computer with malware, and can assist attackers in launch phishing attacks.

It's crucial for developers to ensure websites properly validate user input and encode it before including it on the page.

End-users can use browser extensions with built-in XSS protection to help protect against these attacks.

# Injections

Injection attacks are typically associated with SQL injection, however, there are many different types of injection attacks. 

These attacks occur when attackers add malicious code into a service, or an app, at runtime, and can cause:
- Denial of service
- A complete takeover
- Data loss

## Structured query language (SQL) 
   
## Dynamic-link library (DLL) 

## Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
   
## Extensible Markup Language (XML)

# Pointer/object dereference

# Directory traversal

# Buffer overflows

Buffers are where apps can temporarily write data. 

Buffer overflows occur when more data is written, or stored, than the space can allow. Attackers use these attacks to trigger errors or with the intention of crashing apps. 

# Race conditions

## Time of check/time of use

# Error handling

# Improper input handling

# Replay attack

These attacks occur when valid communication is repeatedly transmitted. 

To protect against these attacks, OTPs can be used to add another layer of defense, as well as adding timestamps on any communication to help minimize or block the attacks entirely.

## Session replays

# Integer overflow

# Request forgeries

## Server-side
   
## Cross-site

Also known as *CSRF* or *XSRF*.

These attacks target websites or apps from a legit and trusted browser session. Users transmit scripts to attack the app, knowingly or unknowingly. 
- Note: these attacks are different from Cross-site Scripting (XSS) as these exploit the trust established by the web app and the user accessing the information.

# Application programming interface (API) attacks

# Resource exhaustion

# Memory leak

# Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) stripping

# Driver manipulation

## Shimming

Shims allow different API versions to operate, however, these can create vulnerabilities as older APIs can be used to manipulate hardware.

## Refactoring

An attacker changes the source code during a refactoring attack, which allows them to gain access to the hardware the code is running on. 
- Note: This allows the hardware to be used for other attacks.

# Pass the hash

These attacks bypass the requirement of knowing a users credentials by passing the hash of the authenticated user to the resource.
- Note: these attacks are usually successful if passwords aren't changed often and the accounts don't have MFA enabled and enforced.
