# 1.6 Explain the security concerns associated with various types of vulnerabilities

# Cloud-based vs. on-premises vulnerabilities
💥 Cloud vulnerabilities refer to security risks associated with using cloud-based services and storage. Organizations should ensure their cloud service providers have robust security measures that are appropriately configured and maintained, review and monitor access to cloud resources, and only grant authorized users access.

💥 On-prem vulnerabilities refer to security risks associated with maintaining data and systems on-premises rather than in the cloud. Organizations should configure and maintain their on-prem infrastructure and use security controls such as firewalls, intrusion detection and prevention, and antimalware software to mitigate these vulnerabilities.
# Zero-day
💥 A zero-day vulnerability is a software or hardware weakness unknown to the vendor or developer that attackers exploit. These vulnerabilities are challenging to mitigate, and days or weeks may go by before a patch is released to remediate them. Organizations should update their software and systems with the latest updates and security patches to remediate zero-day vulnerabilities, conduct regular vulnerability assessments, and promptly remediate any identified weaknesses.
# Weak configurations

## Open permissions

## Unsecure root accounts

## Errors
   
## Weak encryption

## Unsecure protocols

## Default settings

## Open ports and services

# Third-party risks

## Vendor management

### System integration

### Lack of vendor support

## Supply chain

## Outsourced code development

## Data storage

# Improper or weak patch management

## Firmware

## Operating system (OS)

## Applications

# Legacy platforms

# Impacts

## Data loss
   
## Data breaches
   
## Data exfiltration

## Identity theft
   
## Financial

## Reputation

## Availability loss