1-Threats-Attacks-and-Vulnerabilities/1.7 Summarize the techniques used in security assessments.md, before:

# 1.7 Summarize the techniques used in security assessments

# Threat Hunting

Threat hunting is a proactive approach to security that involves actively searching for potential threats or indicators of compromise (IoCs) within an org's network. 

Threat hunting aims to identify and prevent threats **before** they can cause damage to a network. This can include:

- Data analysis
- Monitoring logs
- Network traffic analysis

## Intelligence fusion

## Threat feeds

## Advisories and bulletins
    
## Maneuver

# Vulnerability scans

Vulnerability scans use automated tools to scan systems to identify software and hardware vulnerabilities and misconfigurations. There are different types of vulnerability scans that organizations can utilize based on the devices security teams want to evaluate.

# Types of Vulnerability Scans

## Application

🔎 𝗔𝗽𝗽𝗹𝗶𝗰𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝘀𝗰𝗮𝗻𝘀: requires access to an app's source code but without needing to execute the code. This type of scanning is known as static application security testing (SAST).

## Web application

🔎 𝗪𝗲𝗯 𝗮𝗽𝗽 𝘀𝗰𝗮𝗻𝘀: targets web apps for vulnerabilities such as command injection, cross-site scripting (XSS), and path traversal. This type of scanning is known as dynamic application security testing (DAST).

## Network

🔎 𝗡𝗲𝘁𝘄𝗼𝗿𝗸 𝘀𝗰𝗮𝗻𝘀: searches for open ports, vulnerabilities, and information about user accounts. These scans can be intrusive, causing a large amount of network traffic and potentially causing system outages by attempting to exploit any vulnerabilities found. Non-intrusive scans are less comprehensive and require less time to perform.

* These scans provide valuable information regarding the types of vulnerabilities discovered, such as common vulnerabilities and exposures (CVE) and common vulnerability scoring system (CVSS). 

## Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) & Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS)

CVE provides a list of publicly disclosed vulnerabilities, and CVSS measures the severity of the vulnerability. Organizations should run these scans regularly to identify new vulnerabilities and verify previous vulnerabilities are remediated. While these scans are an essential part of security assessments, there are errors known as false positives and false negatives.

## False Positives and Negatives

💡 False positives report threats when they don't exist. These may occur due to proprietary software, misconfigured scan settings, network changes, or incorrect vulnerability definitions.

💡 False negatives report no threats when threats exist. These may occur due to proprietary software, misconfigured scan settings, network changes, or evolving threats.

## Log reviews

## Credentialed vs. non-credentialed

## Configuration review

# Syslog/Security information and event management (SIEM)
    
## Review reports

## Packet capture

## Data inputs

## User behavior analysis

## Sentiment analysis

## Security monitoring

## Log aggregation

## Log collectors

    
# Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR)

Commit message:

Update 1.7 Summarize the techniques used in security assessments.md
Additional note regarding false positives

1-Threats-Attacks-and-Vulnerabilities/1.7 Summarize the techniques used in security assessments.md, after:

# 1.7 Summarize the techniques used in security assessments

# Threat Hunting

Threat hunting is a proactive approach to security that involves actively searching for potential threats or indicators of compromise (IoCs) within an org's network. 

Threat hunting aims to identify and prevent threats **before** they can cause damage to a network. This can include:

- Data analysis
- Monitoring logs
- Network traffic analysis

## Intelligence fusion

## Threat feeds

## Advisories and bulletins
    
## Maneuver

# Vulnerability scans

Vulnerability scans use automated tools to scan systems to identify software and hardware vulnerabilities and misconfigurations. There are different types of vulnerability scans that organizations can utilize based on the devices security teams want to evaluate.

# Types of Vulnerability Scans

## Application

🔎 𝗔𝗽𝗽𝗹𝗶𝗰𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝘀𝗰𝗮𝗻𝘀: requires access to an app's source code but without needing to execute the code. This type of scanning is known as static application security testing (SAST).

## Web application

🔎 𝗪𝗲𝗯 𝗮𝗽𝗽 𝘀𝗰𝗮𝗻𝘀: targets web apps for vulnerabilities such as command injection, cross-site scripting (XSS), and path traversal. This type of scanning is known as dynamic application security testing (DAST).

## Network

🔎 𝗡𝗲𝘁𝘄𝗼𝗿𝗸 𝘀𝗰𝗮𝗻𝘀: searches for open ports, vulnerabilities, and information about user accounts. These scans can be intrusive, causing a large amount of network traffic and potentially causing system outages by attempting to exploit any vulnerabilities found. Non-intrusive scans are less comprehensive and require less time to perform.

* These scans provide valuable information regarding the types of vulnerabilities discovered, such as common vulnerabilities and exposures (CVE) and common vulnerability scoring system (CVSS). 

## Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) & Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS)

CVE provides a list of publicly disclosed vulnerabilities, and CVSS measures the severity of the vulnerability. Organizations should run these scans regularly to identify new vulnerabilities and verify previous vulnerabilities are remediated. While these scans are an essential part of security assessments, there are errors known as false positives and false negatives.

## False Positives and Negatives

💡 False positives report threats when they don't exist. These may occur due to proprietary software, misconfigured scan settings, network changes, or incorrect vulnerability definitions.
- Note: the rate of these can be high as vuln scanning is an attempt to identify if there is a *risk*. Security controls that are properly implemented can mitigate risk(s).

💡 False negatives report no threats when threats exist. These may occur due to proprietary software, misconfigured scan settings, network changes, or evolving threats.

## Log reviews

## Credentialed vs. non-credentialed

## Configuration review

# Syslog/Security information and event management (SIEM)
    
## Review reports

## Packet capture

## Data inputs

## User behavior analysis

## Sentiment analysis

## Security monitoring

## Log aggregation

## Log collectors

    
# Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR)
