1-Threats-Attacks-and-Vulnerabilities/1.8 Explain the techniques used in penetration testing.md, before:

# 1.8 Explain the techniques used in penetration testing

# Penetration testing
    
## Known environment

📚 A known environment test aims to identify any new vulnerabilities or misconfigurations that have surfaced since the last test. Penetration testers know about the network topology, IP addresses, open ports and services, and vulnerabilities in a known environment penetration test.

## Unknown environment

🕵️ An unknown environment test aims to simulate a real-world attack scenario in which the tester has to perform reconnaissance and mapping of the target network to identify vulnerabilities. In these tests, the pentester has minimal or no knowledge of the network and system infrastructure.

## Partially known environment

🗒A partially known environment test aims to identify any vulnerabilities or misconfigurations in the known and unknown parts of the network. Penetration testers have some information about specific network segments or systems but a partial understanding of the entire network.

## Rules of engagement

🤝 Rules of engagement (ROE) outline the scope and limits of a penetration test. These rules help protect the organization by clearly defining the test's scope and limitations and ensuring that the tester does not cause any unintended harm or damage to systems or data. It is crucial to have clear and agreed-upon ROE before starting any pen-testing engagement to ensure clarity and understanding between the tester and the organization.

## Lateral movement

⌨️ When a penetration tester gains access to a system, they will attempt to move laterally using stolen credentials, exploiting trust relationships, and using network discovery tools to identify and access other systems.   

## Privilege escalation

⌨️ Once a penetration tester gains access to a system, they will attempt to escalate privileges by exploiting vulnerabilities in the operating system or apps or stealing and using privileged credentials.

## Persistence

⌨️ Penetration testers will attempt to maintain persistence after the access has been discovered and remediated by installing backdoors, creating scheduled tasks, or modifying the system's startup configuration.
## Cleanup

## Bug bounty

## Pivoting

⌨️ Pivoting uses a compromised system as a foothold to perform reconnaissance, launch attacks on other systems on the network, or relay network traffic.

# Passive and active reconnaissance

## Drones

## War flying

## War driving

## Footprinting

## OSINT

# Exercise types

## Red-team: offensive

🏹 Red teams are groups of security professionals who simulate the actions of an attacker to test the effectiveness of an organization's security measures and identifies vulnerabilities and weaknesses that an attacker could exploit. These roles may include ethical hackers, penetration testers, reverse engineers, malware analysts, exploit developers, or team leaders.
## Blue-team: defensive

🛡️ Blue teams are groups of security professionals who detect and respond to security incidents and improve the organization's overall security posture. These roles may include security analysts, security operations center analysts, threat hunters, network and system admins, security architectures, or incident responders.
## White-team

## Purple-team

https://purplesec.us/red-team-vs-blue-team-cyber-security/

Commit message:

Update 1.8 Explain the techniques used in penetration testing.md
Active & Passive recon notes

1-Threats-Attacks-and-Vulnerabilities/1.8 Explain the techniques used in penetration testing.md, after:

# 1.8 Explain the techniques used in penetration testing

# Penetration testing
    
## Known environment

📚 A known environment test aims to identify any new vulnerabilities or misconfigurations that have surfaced since the last test. Penetration testers know about the network topology, IP addresses, open ports and services, and vulnerabilities in a known environment penetration test.

## Unknown environment

🕵️ An unknown environment test aims to simulate a real-world attack scenario in which the tester has to perform reconnaissance and mapping of the target network to identify vulnerabilities. In these tests, the pentester has minimal or no knowledge of the network and system infrastructure.

## Partially known environment

🗒A partially known environment test aims to identify any vulnerabilities or misconfigurations in the known and unknown parts of the network. Penetration testers have some information about specific network segments or systems but a partial understanding of the entire network.

## Rules of engagement

🤝 Rules of engagement (ROE) outline the scope and limits of a penetration test. These rules help protect the organization by clearly defining the test's scope and limitations and ensuring that the tester does not cause any unintended harm or damage to systems or data. It is crucial to have clear and agreed-upon ROE before starting any pen-testing engagement to ensure clarity and understanding between the tester and the organization.

## Lateral movement

⌨️ When a penetration tester gains access to a system, they will attempt to move laterally using stolen credentials, exploiting trust relationships, and using network discovery tools to identify and access other systems.   

## Privilege escalation

⌨️ Once a penetration tester gains access to a system, they will attempt to escalate privileges by exploiting vulnerabilities in the operating system or apps or stealing and using privileged credentials.

## Persistence

⌨️ Penetration testers will attempt to maintain persistence after the access has been discovered and remediated by installing backdoors, creating scheduled tasks, or modifying the system's startup configuration.
## Cleanup

## Bug bounty

## Pivoting

⌨️ Pivoting uses a compromised system as a foothold to perform reconnaissance, launch attacks on other systems on the network, or relay network traffic.

# Passive and active reconnaissance

Passive recon is the act of gathering information about a target without gaining access to the resources or network.

Active recon actively tests the security controls in order to either trigger errors or gain additional knowledge about the target.

## Drones

## War flying

## War driving

## Footprinting

## OSINT

# Exercise types

## Red-team: offensive

🏹 Red teams are groups of security professionals who simulate the actions of an attacker to test the effectiveness of an organization's security measures and identifies vulnerabilities and weaknesses that an attacker could exploit. These roles may include ethical hackers, penetration testers, reverse engineers, malware analysts, exploit developers, or team leaders.
## Blue-team: defensive

🛡️ Blue teams are groups of security professionals who detect and respond to security incidents and improve the organization's overall security posture. These roles may include security analysts, security operations center analysts, threat hunters, network and system admins, security architectures, or incident responders.
## White-team

## Purple-team

https://purplesec.us/red-team-vs-blue-team-cyber-security/
